---
layout: default
title: "Getting Home"
---

It has been so long since I've seen my house. My memory of it is
faded, but I focus and remember a spell memorized years before. The
techniques I learned prior to Shadow have served me well, and the
spell I had been holding in my head for so long is still strong and
clear.

A glow rings my head, establishing a connection to the Blue Sun and
revealing the thread I must follow. The path is long and dangerous,
but that journey pales compared to the prospect of homelessness. It
twists and winds its way around my head, eventually leading to the
desired memory caged within the tendrils of a Memory Kraken.

I could pull it away, burn it into oblivion, that is within my power.
Maybe the stick isn't a good choice, though, perhaps the carrot would
be more effective; I gather mundane memories I can offer to gain its
trust.

I hold in my hand fragments of little importance: tying my shoes,
brushing my teeth, anything routine or mundane. Pulling them apart and
spreading them around the filthy tendrils causes them to loosen their
grip, its hunger temporarily sated.

What memory should I offer in its place? Everything seems so precious,
then it hits me: I can trick it into feeding on itself. Of all the
thoughts in my head, the one I'm creating right now is singularly
unique.

I coax the beast toward that morsel, and it reaches out eagerly. This
is a crucial point, I must move on before its grip tightens and traps
me as well. I see a large opening, realize there are mere seconds
until it is enveloped, and I dive through...

I'm sorry, what were we talking about? I really don't have time to
chat, you see I've only just remembered where I live and I'd very much
like to get home.
